## Create an SQL Database in Azure

* Login into [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com/)

* Click **Create a resource**

* Search for *SQL Database*

* Click the **Create** button in the *SQL Database window*

* Create a new resource group. Name it *rg[YourAppName]*

* Enter *[YourAppName]Db* as database name

* Create a new Server and name it *[YourAppName]server*

* Authentication method: Use Sql authentication

* Enter a [serveradmin] login and passwords. Click the **OK** button

* Choose **Development** as Workload environment

* Click the **Review + create** button. Click **Create**

* Click the **Go to resource** button when the deployment is complete.

* Click on the  **Set server firewall** tab

* Navigate to the **Networking** section under the **Security** left side menu.

* In the Public Access tab, select **Selected networks** and click **Add your client IPv4 address** at the Firewall rules.

* In the **Exceptions** section, select **Allow Azure and resources to access this server** and click the **Save** button.

* Go to your **SQL database**, click **Connection strings** and copy the connection string

* Replace the Default connection string in the appsettings.json files of the [YourAppName].HttpApi.Host and the [YourAppName].DbMigrator project

* Do not forget to replace {your_password} with the correct server password you entered in Azure SQL Database

* Open a terminal in the [YourAppName].DbMigrator project and run the command below to apply the db migrations

```bash
    dotnet run
```

* Open a command prompt in the [YourAppName].HttpApi.Host project and start your API.

```bash
    dotnet run
```

Stop the [YourAppName].HttpApi.Host by entering **CTRL+C**

* Open a terminal in the root folder of your project. Add, commit and push all your changes to your GitHub repo

```bash
    git add .
    git commit -m database_created
    git push
```

[[Previous]](tutorial/../2.create-a-new-abp-framework-application.md) - [[Next]](tutorial/../4.set-up-a-build-pipeline-in-azuredevops.md)
